[coroutine] Implement llvm.coro.await.suspend intrinsic (#79712)
llvm/llvm-project: llvm/docs/Coroutines.rst

In a yield-once coroutine, it is undefined behavior if the coroutine
executes a call to ``llvm.coro.suspend.retcon`` after resuming in any way.

.. _coro.await.suspend:

> 'llvm.coro.await.suspend' Intrinsic

Author: Renamed to `coro.await.suspend.void`

^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
::

  declare void @llvm.coro.await.suspend(
                ptr <awaiter>,
                ptr <handle>,
                ptr <await_suspend_function>)

Overview:
"""""""""

The '``llvm.coro.await.suspend``' intrinsic hides C++ `await-suspend`
block code from optimizations on presplit coroutine body 
to avoid miscompilations. This version of intrinsic corresponds to 

> '``void awaiter.await_suspend(...)``' variant.

Reviewer: Maybe it is better to express the motivation too. It is explained in the comment in SemaCoroutine.

Author: Added motivation (copied that comment almost verbatim)

Arguments:
""""""""""

The first argument is a pointer to `awaiter` object.

The second argument is a pointer to the current coroutine's frame.

The third argument is a pointer to the helper function encapsulating
`await-suspend` logic. Its signature must be

.. code-block:: llvm

    declare void @await_suspend_function(ptr %awaiter, ptr %hdl)

Semantics:
""""""""""

The intrinsic must be used between corresponding `coro.save`_ and 
`coro.suspend`_ calls. It is lowered to an inlined 
`await_suspend_function` call during `CoroSplit`_ pass.

Example:
""""""""

.. code-block:: llvm

  ; before lowering
  await.suspend:
    %save = call token @llvm.coro.save(ptr %hdl)
    call void @llvm.coro.await.suspend(
                ptr %awaiter,
                ptr %hdl,
                ptr @await_suspend_function)
    %suspend = call i8 @llvm.coro.suspend(token %save, i1 false)
    ...

  ; after lowering
  await.suspend:
    %save = call token @llvm.coro.save(ptr %hdl)

>     ; the call to await_suspend_function is inlined

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    ; the call to await_suspend_function can be inlined
```

Author: Fixed

    call void @await_suspend_function(
                ptr %awaiter,
                ptr %hdl)
    %suspend = call i8 @llvm.coro.suspend(token %save, i1 false)   
    ...

  ; helper function example
  define void @await_suspend_function(ptr %awaiter, ptr %hdl)
    entry:
      %hdl.tmp = alloca %"struct.std::coroutine_handle"
      %hdl.result.tmp = alloca %"struct.std::coroutine_handle"
      %hdl.promise.tmp = alloca %"struct.std::coroutine_handle.0"
      %hdl.promise = call ptr @"std::corouine_handle<promise_type>::from_address"(ptr %hdl)
      %hdl.promise.tmp.dive = getelementptr inbounds %"struct.std::coroutine_handle.0",
        ptr %hdl.promise.tmp, i32 0, i32 0
      %hdl.promise.tmp.dive2 = getelementptr inbounds %"struct.std::coroutine_handle",
        ptr %hdl.promise.tmp.dive, i32 0, i32 0
      store ptr %hdl.promise, ptr %hdl.promise.tmp.dive2
      call void @llvm.memcpy.p0.p0.i64(ptr %hdl.tmp, ptr %hdl.promise.tmp, i64 8, i1 false)
      %hdl.tmp.dive = getelementptr inbounds %"struct.std::coroutine_handle",
        ptr %hdl.tmp, i32 0, i32 0

>       %hdl.arg = load ptr, ptr %hdl.tmp.dive

Reviewer: The readability looks not nice. Maybe we don't need to paste the complete IR here.

Author: Reduced the amount of IR

to avoid miscompilations. This version of intrinsic corresponds to 
'``bool awaiter.await_suspend(...)``' variant.

Arguments:
""""""""""

The first argument is a pointer to `awaiter` object.

The second argument is a pointer to the current coroutine's frame.

The third argument is a pointer to the helper function encapsulating
`await-suspend` logic. Its signature must be

.. code-block:: llvm

    declare i1 @await_suspend_function(ptr %awaiter, ptr %hdl)

Semantics:
""""""""""

The intrinsic must be used between corresponding `coro.save`_ and 
`coro.suspend`_ calls. It is lowered to an inlined 
`await_suspend_function` call during `CoroSplit`_ pass.

If `await_suspend_function` call returns `true`, the current coroutine is
immediately resumed.

Example:
""""""""

.. code-block:: llvm

  ; before lowering
  await.suspend:
    %save = call token @llvm.coro.save(ptr %hdl)
    %resume = call i1 @llvm.coro.await.suspend(
                ptr %awaiter,
                ptr %hdl,
                ptr @await_suspend_function)
    br i1 %resume, %await.suspend.bool, %await.ready
  await.suspend.bool:
    %suspend = call i8 @llvm.coro.suspend(token %save, i1 false)
    ...
  await.ready:

>     call void @"Awaiter::await_ready"(ptr %awaiter)

Reviewer: shouldn't this be `await_resume`? await_ready should happen before await_suspend

Author: Yes, was a typo.

The '``llvm.coro.await.suspend.handle``' intrinsic hides C++ `await-suspend`
block code from optimizations on presplit coroutine body 
to avoid miscompilations. This version of intrinsic corresponds to 
'``std::corouine_handle<> awaiter.await_suspend(...)``' variant.

Arguments:
""""""""""

The first argument is a pointer to `awaiter` object.

The second argument is a pointer to the current coroutine's frame.

The third argument is a pointer to the helper function encapsulating
`await-suspend` logic. Its signature must be

.. code-block:: llvm

    declare ptr @await_suspend_function(ptr %awaiter, ptr %hdl)

Semantics:
""""""""""

The intrinsic must be used between corresponding `coro.save`_ and 
`coro.suspend`_ calls. It is lowered to an inlined 
`await_suspend_function` call during `CoroSplit`_ pass.

`await_suspend_function` must return a pointer to a valid
coroutine frame, which is immediately resumed

Example:
""""""""

.. code-block:: llvm

  ; before lowering
  await.suspend:
    %save = call token @llvm.coro.save(ptr %hdl)
    %next = call ptr @llvm.coro.await.suspend(
                ptr %awaiter,
                ptr %hdl,
                ptr @await_suspend_function)

>     call void @llvm.coro.resume(%next)

Reviewer: I feel better if there is `@llvm.coro.suspend`

Author: Added `@llvm.coro.suspend`
